As a cleric, you gain the following class features.

Hit Points

Hit Dice: 1d8 per cleric level
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier 
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per cleric level after 1st Proficiencies

Armor: Light armor, medium armor, shields 
Weapons: All simple weapons 
Tools: None
Saving Throws: Wisdom , Charisma 
Skills: Choose two from History, Insight, Medicine, Persuasion, and Religion

Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:
• (a) a m ace or (b) a warhammer (if proficient)
• (a) scale mail, (b) leather armor, or (c) chain mail (if proficient)
• (a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) any simple weapon
• (a) a priest’s pack or (b) an explorer’s pack
• A shield and a holy symbol

Spellcasting:
As a conduit for divine power, you can cast cleric spells. See chapter 10 for the general rules of spellcasting and chapter 11 for the cleric spell list.

Cantrips:
At 1st level, you know three cantrips of your choice from the cleric spell list. You learn additional cleric cantrips of your choice at higher levels, as show n in the Cantrips Known column of the Cleric table.

Preparing and Casting Spells:
The Cleric table show s how many spell slots you have to cast your spells of 1st level and higher. To cast one of these spells, you must expend a slot of the spell’s level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when you finish a long rest. You prepare the list of cleric spells that are available for you to cast, choosing from the cleric spell list. W hen you do so, choose a number of cleric spells equal to your Wisdom modifier + your cleric level (minimum of one spell). The spells must be of a level for which you have spell slots. For example, if you are a 3rd-level cleric, you have four 1st-level and two 2nd-level spell slots. With a Wisdom of 16, your list of prepared spells can include six spells of 1st or 2nd level, in any combination. If you prepare the 1st-level spell cure wounds, you can cast it using a 1st-level or 2nd-level slot. Casting the spell doesn’t remove it from your list of prepared spells.
You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a long rest. Preparing a new list of cleric spells requires time spent in prayer and meditation: at least 1 minute per spell level for each spell on your list.

Spellcasting Ability
Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for your cleric spells. The power of your spells comes from your devotion to your deity. You use your Wisdom whenever a cleric spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In addition, you use your Wisdom modifier when setting the saving throw DC for a cleric spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.

Spell save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier
Spell attack modifier = your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier

Ritual Casting
You can cast a cleric spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and you have the spell prepared.

Spellcasting Focus
You can use a holy symbol (found in chapter 5) as a spellcasting focus for your cleric spells.

** see handbook for divine domain (pg. 58) **

Cleric - Cantrips:
Guidance (p248)
Light (p253)
Mending (p259)
Resistance (p272)
Sacred Flame (p272)
Spare the Dying (p277)
Thaumaturgy (p282)

Cleric - 1st level:
Bane (p216)
Bless (p219)
Command (p223)
Create or Destroy Water (p229)
Cure Wounds (p230)
Detect Evil and Good (p231)
Detect Magic (p231)
Detect Poison and Disease (p231)
Guiding Bolt (p248)
Healing Word (p250)
Inflict Wounds (p253)
Protection from Evil and Good (p270)
Purify Food and Drink (p270)
Sanctuary (p272)
Shield of Faith (p275)