Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion
Tool Proficiencies: One type of artisan’s tools 
Languages: One of your choice
Equipment: A set of artisan’s tools (one of your choice), a letter of introduction from your guild, a set of traveler’s clothes, and a belt pouch containing 15 gp

Guild Business
Guilds are generally found in cities large enough to support several artisans practicing the same trade. However, your guild might instead be a loose network of artisans who each work in a different village within a larger realm. Work with your DM to determine the nature of your guild. You can select your guild business from the Guild Business table or roll randomly.

Guild Business (roll a d20)
1 Alchemists and apothecaries
2 Armorers, locksmiths, and finesmiths
3 Brewers, distillers, and vintners
4 Calligraphers, scribes, and scriveners
5 Carpenters, roofers, and plasterers
6 Cartographers, surveyors, and chart-makers
7 Cobblers and shoemakers
8 Cooks and bakers
9 Glassblowers and glaziers
10 Jewelers and gemcutters
11 Leatherworkers, skinners, and tanners
12 Masons and stonecutters
13 Painters, limners, and sign-makers
14 Potters and tile-makers
15 Shipwrights and sailmakers
16 Smiths and metal-forgers
17 Tinkers, pewterers, and casters
18 Wagon-makers and wheelwrights
19 Weavers and dyers
20 Woodcarvers, coopers, and bowyers
As a member of your guild, you know the skills needed to create finished items from raw materials (reflected in your proficiency with a certain kind of artisan’s tools), as well as the principles o f trade and good business practices. The question now is whether you abandon your trade for adventure, or take on the extra effort to weave adventuring and trade together.

Feature: Guild Membership
As an established and respected member of a guild, you can rely on certain benefits that membership provides. Your fellow guild embers will provide you with lodging and food if necessary, and pay for your funeral if needed. In some cities and towns, a guildhall offers a central place to meet other members of your profession, which can be a good place to meet potential patrons, allies, or hirelings.
Guilds often wield tremendous political power. If you are accused of a crime, your guild will support you if a good case can be made for your innocence or the crime is justifiable. You can also gain access to powerful political figures through the guild, if you are a member in good standing. Such connections might require the donation of money or magic items to the guild’s coffers. You must pay dues of 5 gp per month to the guild. If you miss payments, you must make up back dues to remain in the guild’s good graces.