For some significant portion of your life, you have been someone else's property. This part of your life happened either by abduction, as punishment for a crime, sworn to a debt of life, or you were born into it. How did you become a slave? Are you a slave or a freeman? Who was your master and where are they? What were the conditions of your slavery? What did you do as a slave? Were you treated well, or were you abused? How much privilege or freedom did you experience, and was this granted to you, or taken by you? How would you treat your master after your servitude? Can you ever really leave your background behind you? Do you really even need to escape, or will you remain a slave for the rest of your journey? Do you have the willpower to create slave-free actions, or has your background tainted your history and the actions that you can take later in your career? What would you do with your slaves?

Skill Proficiencies: Performance or Survival

Tool Proficiencies: You have proficiency with any one item on the tools list with a value no greater than 15gp.

Equipment: One tool you are proficient with or one simple melee weapon, a set of clothes appropriate to your master's status and your slave purpose, and a small pouch containing 1gp. 

Purpose
A slave is set to a task by their master for a reason– their purpose for even being alive.
Purpose (roll d8)
1 I existed to do hard labor, such as mining or construction.
2 I existed for someone else's amusement, entertainment, or recreation.
3 I existed to serve some dedicated menial task, such as cooking or cleaning.
4 I existed as the personal servant of a given person, family, or group.
5 I existed to fulfill the tasks of some professional assistant, such as a furnace operator for a smithy.
6 I existed to serve the function of an inanimate object, such as a signpost or furniture, or to operate such things, like opening and closing a specific door all day long.
7 I existed to fight and die in the place of someone else, as a soldier or bodyguard.
8 I existed to serve all, as an untouchable– a slave to even other slaves. 

Feature: The Hard Road
Slaves face great difficulty everywhere they go. Escaped slaves are often on the run if not from their former owners, then certainly from the law. Few are educated or have any practical experience to make a way for themselves. Most have limited social skills which give away their social status. Slavers may notice freemen as "unclaimed property" and try to "claim" them as slaves. People sense a sort of "inferiority" about slaves and freemen, and they will likely either ignore you or boss you around. Many freemen turn to crime to make ends meet and so anyone who doesn't assume you a slave immediately, will likely assume that you are a criminal. If you can ever really leave the slavery mindset knowing what it's like to be a slave, then you can pose as a slave with little difficulty and without raising much suspicion. People seem to do things in front of you that they would normally only do when they are alone. 